<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

*   [Atom][1]
*   [atom][2]
    *   [Parameters][3]
*   [molecule][4]
    *   [Parameters][5]
*   [get][6]
    *   [Parameters][7]
*   [set][8]
    *   [Parameters][9]
*   [Particle][10]
    *   [Properties][11]
*   [WaveScheduler][12]
*   [sync][13]
*   [setDefaultScheduler][14]
    *   [Parameters][15]
*   [wave][16]
    *   [Parameters][17]
*   [AsyncWaveScheduler][18]
*   [async][19]

## Atom

**Extends Particle\<T>**

Interface extending [Particle\<T>][20] that enables write access with the `set` operator.

## atom

Creates an [Atom][1] object with the provided initial value.

### Parameters

*   `initialValue` **T** The initial value for the Atom.

Returns **[Atom][1]\<T>** An [Atom][1] object with read and write capabilities.

## molecule

Creates a new particle representing a molecule with the given factory function.
The molecule tracks its dependencies and updates its value when needed.
The molecule will attempt to defer its computation until it is necessary (e.g. when it's another particle's depencency, or when its value is being read).

### Parameters

*   `factory` **function (get: Getter): T** A function computes the value of the molecule. It accepts a unique "get" operator that marks the particle as a dependency.

Returns **[Particle][10]\<T>** A [Particle][10] representing the molecule with the specified behavior.

## get

Retrieves the current value from the given [Particle][10].

### Parameters

*   `particle` **[Particle][10]\<T>** The [Particle][10] object from which to retrieve the value.

Returns **T** The current value of the particle.

## set

Sets the value of the given [Atom][1] using the provided Writer function.

### Parameters

*   `atom` **[Atom][1]\<T>** The [Atom][1] to set the value for.
*   `value` **Writer\<T>** either a new value to set, or a function that accepts the current value and returns a new value.

## Particle

A particle is a lightweight object that represents a value that can be read and tracked for changes.

Type: {readSym: function (): T, notifySym: function (): void}

### Properties

*   `readSym` **function (): T**&#x20;
*   `notifySym` **function (): void**&#x20;

## WaveScheduler

Interface representing a WaveScheduler with methods to register a wave with an effect and to schedule a wave's effect to run.

## sync

Represents a synchronous wave scheduler that implements the [WaveScheduler][12] interface.

This scheduler allows registering waves with associated effects and scheduling them to run synchronously.
It keeps track of pending waves and ensures that each wave's effect is executed only once.

## setDefaultScheduler

Sets the default scheduler to be used by the wave function.

### Parameters

*   `scheduler` **[WaveScheduler][12]** The WaveScheduler implementation to set as the default scheduler.

## wave

Declare a wave effect that will be run immediately, and when any of its dependencies change.

### Parameters

*   `effect` **function (get: Getter): T** A function that runs after the wave's creation and every time one of its dependencies changes. It accepts a unique "get" operator that marks the particle as a dependency.
*   `scheduler` **[WaveScheduler][12]** The [WaveScheduler][12] to use for scheduling the effect to run. (optional, default `DEFAULT_SCHEDULER`)

Returns **Unsubscribe** An Unsubscribe function that can be used to stop the effect and clean up any dependencies.

## AsyncWaveScheduler

Represents an asynchronous wave scheduler that implements the WaveScheduler interface.

This scheduler allows registering waves with associated effects and scheduling them to run asynchronously.
It keeps track of pending waves and ensures that each wave's effect is executed only once.

## async

A default instance of the [AsyncWaveScheduler][18] class.

[1]: #atom

[2]: #atom-1

[3]: #parameters

[4]: #molecule

[5]: #parameters-1

[6]: #get

[7]: #parameters-2

[8]: #set

[9]: #parameters-3

[10]: #particle

[11]: #properties

[12]: #wavescheduler

[13]: #sync

[14]: #setdefaultscheduler

[15]: #parameters-4

[16]: #wave

[17]: #parameters-5

[18]: #asyncwavescheduler

[19]: #async

[20]: Particle<T>
